
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">
<html><head><title>Python: module ppymilterbase</title>
</head><body bgcolor="#f0f0f8">

<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="heading">
<tr bgcolor="#7799ee">
<td valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#ffffff" face="helvetica, arial">&nbsp;<br><big><big><strong>ppymilterbase</strong></big></big></font></td
><td align=right valign=bottom
><font color="#ffffff" face="helvetica, arial"><a href=".">index</a><br><a href="file:/tmp/ppymilter/ppymilter-1.0/lib/ppymilterbase.py">/tmp/ppymilter/ppymilter-1.0/lib/ppymilterbase.py</a></font></td></tr></table>
    <p><tt>#&nbsp;$Id:&nbsp;ppymilterbase.py&nbsp;33&nbsp;2009-04-08&nbsp;20:40:02Z&nbsp;codewhale&nbsp;$<br>
#&nbsp;==============================================================================<br>
#&nbsp;Copyright&nbsp;2008&nbsp;Google&nbsp;Inc.<br>
#<br>
#&nbsp;Licensed&nbsp;under&nbsp;the&nbsp;Apache&nbsp;License,&nbsp;Version&nbsp;2.0&nbsp;(the&nbsp;"License");<br>
#&nbsp;you&nbsp;may&nbsp;not&nbsp;use&nbsp;this&nbsp;file&nbsp;except&nbsp;in&nbsp;compliance&nbsp;with&nbsp;the&nbsp;License.<br>
#&nbsp;You&nbsp;may&nbsp;obtain&nbsp;a&nbsp;copy&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;License&nbsp;at<br>
#<br>
#&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0">http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0</a><br>
#<br>
#&nbsp;Unless&nbsp;required&nbsp;by&nbsp;applicable&nbsp;law&nbsp;or&nbsp;agreed&nbsp;to&nbsp;in&nbsp;writing,&nbsp;software<br>
#&nbsp;distributed&nbsp;under&nbsp;the&nbsp;License&nbsp;is&nbsp;distributed&nbsp;on&nbsp;an&nbsp;"AS&nbsp;IS"&nbsp;BASIS,<br>
#&nbsp;WITHOUT&nbsp;WARRANTIES&nbsp;OR&nbsp;CONDITIONS&nbsp;OF&nbsp;ANY&nbsp;KIND,&nbsp;either&nbsp;express&nbsp;or&nbsp;implied.<br>
#&nbsp;See&nbsp;the&nbsp;License&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;specific&nbsp;language&nbsp;governing&nbsp;permissions&nbsp;and<br>
#&nbsp;limitations&nbsp;under&nbsp;the&nbsp;License.<br>
#&nbsp;==============================================================================<br>
#<br>
#&nbsp;Pure&nbsp;python&nbsp;milter&nbsp;interface&nbsp;(does&nbsp;not&nbsp;use&nbsp;libmilter.a).<br>
#&nbsp;Handles&nbsp;parsing&nbsp;of&nbsp;milter&nbsp;protocol&nbsp;data&nbsp;(e.g.&nbsp;over&nbsp;a&nbsp;network&nbsp;socket)<br>
#&nbsp;and&nbsp;provides&nbsp;standard&nbsp;arguments&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;callbacks&nbsp;in&nbsp;your&nbsp;handler&nbsp;class.<br>
#<br>
#&nbsp;For&nbsp;details&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;protocol&nbsp;see:<br>
#&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="http://search.cpan.org/src/AVAR/Sendmail-PMilter-0.96/doc/milter-protocol.txt">http://search.cpan.org/src/AVAR/Sendmail-PMilter-0.96/doc/milter-protocol.txt</a><br>
#</tt></p>
<p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#aa55cc">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#ffffff" face="helvetica, arial"><big><strong>Modules</strong></big></font></td></tr>
    
<tr><td bgcolor="#aa55cc"><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><table width="100%" summary="list"><tr><td width="25%" valign=top><a href="binascii.html">binascii</a><br>
<a href="logging.html">logging</a><br>
</td><td width="25%" valign=top><a href="os.html">os</a><br>
<a href="socket.html">socket</a><br>
</td><td width="25%" valign=top><a href="struct.html">struct</a><br>
<a href="sys.html">sys</a><br>
</td><td width="25%" valign=top><a href="types.html">types</a><br>
</td></tr></table></td></tr></table><p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ee77aa">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#ffffff" face="helvetica, arial"><big><strong>Classes</strong></big></font></td></tr>
    
<tr><td bgcolor="#ee77aa"><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><dl>
<dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a>
</font></dt><dd>
<dl>
<dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilter">PpyMilter</a>
</font></dt><dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterDispatcher">PpyMilterDispatcher</a>
</font></dt></dl>
</dd>
<dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>(<a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>)
</font></dt><dd>
<dl>
<dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>
</font></dt><dd>
<dl>
<dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterActionError">PpyMilterActionError</a>
</font></dt><dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterCloseConnection">PpyMilterCloseConnection</a>
</font></dt><dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterPermFailure">PpyMilterPermFailure</a>
</font></dt><dt><font face="helvetica, arial"><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterTempFailure">PpyMilterTempFailure</a>
</font></dt></dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
 <p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#000000" face="helvetica, arial"><a name="PpyMilter">class <strong>PpyMilter</strong></a>(<a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a>)</font></td></tr>
    
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8"><td rowspan=2><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td>
<td colspan=2><tt>Pure&nbsp;python&nbsp;milter&nbsp;handler&nbsp;base&nbsp;class.&nbsp;&nbsp;Inherit&nbsp;from&nbsp;this&nbsp;class<br>
and&nbsp;override&nbsp;any&nbsp;On*()&nbsp;commands&nbsp;you&nbsp;would&nbsp;like&nbsp;your&nbsp;milter&nbsp;to&nbsp;handle.<br>
Register&nbsp;any&nbsp;actions&nbsp;your&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;using&nbsp;the&nbsp;Can*()&nbsp;functions<br>
during&nbsp;your&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-__init__">__init__</a>()&nbsp;(after&nbsp;calling&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter">PpyMilter</a>.__init()__!)&nbsp;to&nbsp;ensure<br>
your&nbsp;milter's&nbsp;actions&nbsp;are&nbsp;accepted.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Pass&nbsp;a&nbsp;reference&nbsp;to&nbsp;your&nbsp;handler&nbsp;class&nbsp;to&nbsp;a&nbsp;python&nbsp;milter&nbsp;socket&nbsp;server<br>
(e.g.&nbsp;AsyncPpyMilterServer)&nbsp;to&nbsp;create&nbsp;a&nbsp;stand-alone&nbsp;milter<br>
process&nbsp;than&nbsp;invokes&nbsp;your&nbsp;custom&nbsp;handler.<br>&nbsp;</tt></td></tr>
<tr><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%">Methods defined here:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-Accept"><strong>Accept</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Create&nbsp;an&nbsp;'ACCEPT'&nbsp;response&nbsp;to&nbsp;return&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;dispatcher.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-AddHeader"><strong>AddHeader</strong></a>(self, name, value)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;an&nbsp;ADDHEADER&nbsp;reply&nbsp;that&nbsp;the&nbsp;client&nbsp;can&nbsp;send&nbsp;during&nbsp;OnEndBody.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;name:&nbsp;The&nbsp;name&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;header&nbsp;to&nbsp;add<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;value:&nbsp;The&nbsp;value&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;header</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-AddRecipient"><strong>AddRecipient</strong></a>(self, rcpt)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;an&nbsp;ADDRCPT&nbsp;reply&nbsp;that&nbsp;the&nbsp;client&nbsp;can&nbsp;send&nbsp;during&nbsp;OnEndBody.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;rcpt:&nbsp;The&nbsp;recipient&nbsp;to&nbsp;add,&nbsp;should&nbsp;have&nbsp;&lt;&gt;&nbsp;around&nbsp;it.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-CanAddHeaders"><strong>CanAddHeaders</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Register&nbsp;that&nbsp;our&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;action&nbsp;'ADDHDRS'.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-CanAddRecipient"><strong>CanAddRecipient</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Register&nbsp;that&nbsp;our&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;action&nbsp;'ADDRCPT'.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-CanChangeBody"><strong>CanChangeBody</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Register&nbsp;that&nbsp;our&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;action&nbsp;'CHGBODY'.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-CanChangeHeaders"><strong>CanChangeHeaders</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Register&nbsp;that&nbsp;our&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;action&nbsp;'CHGHDRS'.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-CanDeleteRecipient"><strong>CanDeleteRecipient</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Register&nbsp;that&nbsp;our&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;action&nbsp;'DELRCPT'.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-CanQuarantine"><strong>CanQuarantine</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Register&nbsp;that&nbsp;our&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;the&nbsp;action&nbsp;'QUARANTINE'.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-ChangeHeader"><strong>ChangeHeader</strong></a>(self, index, name, value)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;a&nbsp;CHGHEADER&nbsp;reply&nbsp;that&nbsp;the&nbsp;client&nbsp;can&nbsp;send&nbsp;during&nbsp;OnEndBody.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;index:&nbsp;The&nbsp;index&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;header&nbsp;to&nbsp;change,&nbsp;offset&nbsp;from&nbsp;1.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The&nbsp;offset&nbsp;is&nbsp;per-occurance&nbsp;of&nbsp;this&nbsp;header,&nbsp;not&nbsp;of&nbsp;all&nbsp;headers.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A&nbsp;value&nbsp;of&nbsp;''&nbsp;(empty&nbsp;string)&nbsp;will&nbsp;cause&nbsp;the&nbsp;header&nbsp;to&nbsp;be&nbsp;deleted.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;name:&nbsp;The&nbsp;name&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;header&nbsp;to&nbsp;insert.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;value:&nbsp;The&nbsp;value&nbsp;to&nbsp;insert.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-Continue"><strong>Continue</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Create&nbsp;an&nbsp;''&nbsp;response&nbsp;to&nbsp;return&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;dispatcher.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-CustomReply"><strong>CustomReply</strong></a>(self, code, text)</dt><dd><tt>Create&nbsp;a&nbsp;'REPLYCODE'&nbsp;(custom)&nbsp;response&nbsp;to&nbsp;return&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter<br>
dispatcher.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;code:&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;or&nbsp;digit&nbsp;string&nbsp;(should&nbsp;be&nbsp;\d\d\d).&nbsp;&nbsp;NOTICE:&nbsp;A&nbsp;'421'&nbsp;reply<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;code&nbsp;will&nbsp;cause&nbsp;sendmail&nbsp;to&nbsp;close&nbsp;the&nbsp;connection&nbsp;after&nbsp;responding!<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(https://www.sendmail.org/releases/8.13.0.html)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;text:&nbsp;Code&nbsp;reason/explaination&nbsp;to&nbsp;send&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;user.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-DeleteRecipient"><strong>DeleteRecipient</strong></a>(self, rcpt)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;an&nbsp;DELRCPT&nbsp;reply&nbsp;that&nbsp;the&nbsp;client&nbsp;can&nbsp;send&nbsp;during&nbsp;OnEndBody.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;rcpt:&nbsp;The&nbsp;recipient&nbsp;to&nbsp;delete,&nbsp;should&nbsp;have&nbsp;&lt;&gt;&nbsp;around&nbsp;it.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-Discard"><strong>Discard</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Create&nbsp;a&nbsp;'DISCARD'&nbsp;response&nbsp;to&nbsp;return&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;dispatcher.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-InsertHeader"><strong>InsertHeader</strong></a>(self, index, name, value)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;an&nbsp;INSHEADER&nbsp;reply&nbsp;that&nbsp;the&nbsp;client&nbsp;can&nbsp;send&nbsp;during&nbsp;OnEndBody.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;index:&nbsp;The&nbsp;index&nbsp;to&nbsp;insert&nbsp;the&nbsp;header&nbsp;at.&nbsp;0&nbsp;is&nbsp;above&nbsp;all&nbsp;headers.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A&nbsp;number&nbsp;greater&nbsp;than&nbsp;the&nbsp;number&nbsp;of&nbsp;headers&nbsp;just&nbsp;appends.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;name:&nbsp;The&nbsp;name&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;header&nbsp;to&nbsp;insert.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;value:&nbsp;The&nbsp;value&nbsp;to&nbsp;insert.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-OnAbort"><strong>OnAbort</strong></a>(self, cmd)</dt><dd><tt>Callback&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;'Abort'&nbsp;milter&nbsp;command.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
This&nbsp;callback&nbsp;is&nbsp;required&nbsp;because&nbsp;per-message&nbsp;data&nbsp;must&nbsp;be&nbsp;cleared&nbsp;when&nbsp;an<br>
Abort&nbsp;command&nbsp;is&nbsp;received.&nbsp;Otherwise&nbsp;any&nbsp;message&nbsp;modifications&nbsp;will&nbsp;end&nbsp;up<br>
being&nbsp;applied&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;next&nbsp;message&nbsp;that&nbsp;is&nbsp;sent&nbsp;down&nbsp;the&nbsp;same&nbsp;SMTP<br>
connection.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;cmd:&nbsp;Unused&nbsp;argument.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Returns:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;A&nbsp;Continue&nbsp;response&nbsp;so&nbsp;that&nbsp;further&nbsp;messages&nbsp;in&nbsp;this&nbsp;SMTP&nbsp;conversation<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;will&nbsp;be&nbsp;processed.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-OnEndBody"><strong>OnEndBody</strong></a>(self, cmd)</dt><dd><tt>Callback&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;'EndBody'&nbsp;milter&nbsp;command.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
If&nbsp;your&nbsp;milter&nbsp;wants&nbsp;to&nbsp;do&nbsp;any&nbsp;message&nbsp;mutations&nbsp;(add/change/delete&nbsp;any<br>
envelope/header/body&nbsp;information)&nbsp;it&nbsp;needs&nbsp;to&nbsp;happen&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;response&nbsp;to<br>
this&nbsp;callback&nbsp;(so&nbsp;need&nbsp;to&nbsp;override&nbsp;this&nbsp;function&nbsp;and&nbsp;cause&nbsp;those<br>
actions&nbsp;by&nbsp;returning&nbsp;using&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-ReturnOnEndBodyActions">ReturnOnEndBodyActions</a>()&nbsp;above).<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;cmd:&nbsp;Unused&nbsp;argument.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Returns:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;A&nbsp;continue&nbsp;response&nbsp;so&nbsp;that&nbsp;further&nbsp;messages&nbsp;in&nbsp;this&nbsp;SMTP&nbsp;conversation<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;will&nbsp;be&nbsp;processed.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-OnMacro"><strong>OnMacro</strong></a>(self, cmd, macro_cmd, data)</dt><dd><tt>Callback&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;'Macro'&nbsp;milter&nbsp;command:&nbsp;no&nbsp;response&nbsp;required.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-OnOptNeg"><strong>OnOptNeg</strong></a>(self, cmd, ver, actions, protocol)</dt><dd><tt>Callback&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;'OptNeg'&nbsp;(option&nbsp;negotiation)&nbsp;milter&nbsp;command.<br>
Shouldn't&nbsp;be&nbsp;necessary&nbsp;to&nbsp;override&nbsp;(don't&nbsp;do&nbsp;it&nbsp;unless&nbsp;you<br>
know&nbsp;what&nbsp;you're&nbsp;doing).<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Option&nbsp;negotation&nbsp;is&nbsp;based&nbsp;on:<br>
(1)&nbsp;Command&nbsp;callback&nbsp;functions&nbsp;defined&nbsp;by&nbsp;your&nbsp;handler&nbsp;class.<br>
(2)&nbsp;Stated&nbsp;actions&nbsp;your&nbsp;milter&nbsp;may&nbsp;perform&nbsp;by&nbsp;invoking&nbsp;the<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"CanFoo()"&nbsp;functions&nbsp;during&nbsp;your&nbsp;milter's&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-__init__">__init__</a>().</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-OnQuit"><strong>OnQuit</strong></a>(self, cmd)</dt><dd><tt>Callback&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;'Quit'&nbsp;milter&nbsp;command:&nbsp;close&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;connection.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
The&nbsp;only&nbsp;logical&nbsp;response&nbsp;is&nbsp;to&nbsp;ultimately&nbsp;raise&nbsp;a<br>
<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection">PpyMilterCloseConnection</a>()&nbsp;exception.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-Reject"><strong>Reject</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Create&nbsp;a&nbsp;'REJECT'&nbsp;response&nbsp;to&nbsp;return&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;dispatcher.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-ReturnOnEndBodyActions"><strong>ReturnOnEndBodyActions</strong></a>(self, actions)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;an&nbsp;OnEndBody&nbsp;response&nbsp;that&nbsp;can&nbsp;consist&nbsp;of&nbsp;multiple&nbsp;actions<br>
followed&nbsp;by&nbsp;a&nbsp;final&nbsp;required&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-Continue">Continue</a>().<br>
&nbsp;<br>
All&nbsp;message&nbsp;mutations&nbsp;(all&nbsp;adds/changes/deletes&nbsp;to&nbsp;envelope/header/body)<br>
must&nbsp;be&nbsp;sent&nbsp;as&nbsp;response&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;OnEndBody&nbsp;callback.&nbsp;&nbsp;Multiple&nbsp;actions<br>
are&nbsp;allowed.&nbsp;&nbsp;This&nbsp;function&nbsp;formats&nbsp;those&nbsp;multiple&nbsp;actions&nbsp;into&nbsp;one<br>
response&nbsp;to&nbsp;return&nbsp;back&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilterDispatcher">PpyMilterDispatcher</a>.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
For&nbsp;example&nbsp;to&nbsp;make&nbsp;sure&nbsp;all&nbsp;recipients&nbsp;are&nbsp;in&nbsp;'To'&nbsp;headers:<br>
+---------------------------------------------------------------------<br>
|&nbsp;class&nbsp;NoBccMilter(PpyMilterBase):<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;def&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-__init__">__init__</a>(self):<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;self.<strong>__mutations</strong>&nbsp;=&nbsp;[]<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;...<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;def&nbsp;OnRcptTo(self,&nbsp;cmd,&nbsp;rcpt_to,&nbsp;esmtp_info):<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;self.<strong>__mutations</strong>.append(<a href="#PpyMilter-AddHeader">AddHeader</a>('To',&nbsp;rcpt_to))<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;return&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-Continue">Continue</a>()<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;def&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-OnEndBody">OnEndBody</a>(self,&nbsp;cmd):<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;tmp&nbsp;=&nbsp;self.<strong>__mutations</strong><br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;self.<strong>__mutations</strong>&nbsp;=&nbsp;[]<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;return&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-ReturnOnEndBodyActions">ReturnOnEndBodyActions</a>(tmp)<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;def&nbsp;OnResetState(self):<br>
|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;self.<strong>__mutations</strong>&nbsp;=&nbsp;[]<br>
+---------------------------------------------------------------------<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;actions:&nbsp;List&nbsp;of&nbsp;"actions"&nbsp;to&nbsp;perform&nbsp;on&nbsp;the&nbsp;message.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For&nbsp;example:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;actions=[<a href="#PpyMilter-AddHeader">AddHeader</a>('Cc',&nbsp;'lurker@example.com'),<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-AddRecipient">AddRecipient</a>('lurker@example.com')]</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-TempFail"><strong>TempFail</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Create&nbsp;a&nbsp;'TEMPFAIL'&nbsp;response&nbsp;to&nbsp;return&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;dispatcher.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilter-__init__"><strong>__init__</strong></a>(self)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;a&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter">PpyMilter</a>&nbsp;<a href="__builtin__.html#object">object</a>.&nbsp;&nbsp;Sets&nbsp;callbacks&nbsp;and&nbsp;registers<br>
callbacks.&nbsp;&nbsp;Make&nbsp;sure&nbsp;you&nbsp;call&nbsp;this&nbsp;directly&nbsp;"<a href="#PpyMilter">PpyMilter</a>.<a href="#PpyMilter-__init__">__init__</a>(self)"<br>
at&nbsp;the&nbsp;beginning&nbsp;of&nbsp;your&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter-__init__">__init__</a>()&nbsp;if&nbsp;you&nbsp;override&nbsp;the&nbsp;class&nbsp;constructor!</tt></dd></dl>

<hr>
Data descriptors defined here:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__dict__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>dictionary&nbsp;for&nbsp;instance&nbsp;variables&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>__weakref__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>list&nbsp;of&nbsp;weak&nbsp;references&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;object&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Data and other attributes defined here:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>ACTION_ADDHDRS</strong> = 1</dl>

<dl><dt><strong>ACTION_ADDRCPT</strong> = 4</dl>

<dl><dt><strong>ACTION_CHGBODY</strong> = 2</dl>

<dl><dt><strong>ACTION_CHGHDRS</strong> = 16</dl>

<dl><dt><strong>ACTION_DELRCPT</strong> = 8</dl>

<dl><dt><strong>ACTION_QUARANTINE</strong> = 32</dl>

</td></tr></table> <p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#000000" face="helvetica, arial"><a name="PpyMilterActionError">class <strong>PpyMilterActionError</strong></a>(<a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>)</font></td></tr>
    
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8"><td rowspan=2><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td>
<td colspan=2><tt><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">Exception</a>&nbsp;raised&nbsp;when&nbsp;an&nbsp;action&nbsp;is&nbsp;performed&nbsp;that&nbsp;was&nbsp;not&nbsp;negotiated.<br>&nbsp;</tt></td></tr>
<tr><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><dl><dt>Method resolution order:</dt>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterActionError">PpyMilterActionError</a></dd>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__weakref__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>list&nbsp;of&nbsp;weak&nbsp;references&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;object&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__init__"><strong>__init__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__init__">__init__</a>(...)&nbsp;initializes&nbsp;x;&nbsp;see&nbsp;x.__class__.__doc__&nbsp;for&nbsp;signature</tt></dd></dl>

<hr>
Data and other attributes inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__new__</strong> = &lt;built-in method __new__ of type object&gt;<dd><tt>T.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__new__">__new__</a>(S,&nbsp;...)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;a&nbsp;new&nbsp;<a href="__builtin__.html#object">object</a>&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;S,&nbsp;a&nbsp;subtype&nbsp;of&nbsp;T</tt></dl>

<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__delattr__"><strong>__delattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__delattr__">__delattr__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;del&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__getattribute__"><strong>__getattribute__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__getattribute__">__getattribute__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__getitem__"><strong>__getitem__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__getitem__">__getitem__</a>(y)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[y]</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__getslice__"><strong>__getslice__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__getslice__">__getslice__</a>(i,&nbsp;j)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[i:j]<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Use&nbsp;of&nbsp;negative&nbsp;indices&nbsp;is&nbsp;not&nbsp;supported.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__reduce__"><strong>__reduce__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__repr__"><strong>__repr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__repr__">__repr__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;repr(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__setattr__"><strong>__setattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__setattr__">__setattr__</a>('name',&nbsp;value)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name&nbsp;=&nbsp;value</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__setstate__"><strong>__setstate__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__str__"><strong>__str__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterActionError-__str__">__str__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;str(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterActionError-__unicode__"><strong>__unicode__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__dict__</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>args</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>message</strong></dt>
</dl>
</td></tr></table> <p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#000000" face="helvetica, arial"><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection">class <strong>PpyMilterCloseConnection</strong></a>(<a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>)</font></td></tr>
    
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8"><td rowspan=2><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td>
<td colspan=2><tt><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">Exception</a>&nbsp;that&nbsp;indicates&nbsp;the&nbsp;server&nbsp;should&nbsp;close&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;connection.<br>&nbsp;</tt></td></tr>
<tr><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><dl><dt>Method resolution order:</dt>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterCloseConnection">PpyMilterCloseConnection</a></dd>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__weakref__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>list&nbsp;of&nbsp;weak&nbsp;references&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;object&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__init__"><strong>__init__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__init__">__init__</a>(...)&nbsp;initializes&nbsp;x;&nbsp;see&nbsp;x.__class__.__doc__&nbsp;for&nbsp;signature</tt></dd></dl>

<hr>
Data and other attributes inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__new__</strong> = &lt;built-in method __new__ of type object&gt;<dd><tt>T.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__new__">__new__</a>(S,&nbsp;...)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;a&nbsp;new&nbsp;<a href="__builtin__.html#object">object</a>&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;S,&nbsp;a&nbsp;subtype&nbsp;of&nbsp;T</tt></dl>

<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__delattr__"><strong>__delattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__delattr__">__delattr__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;del&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__getattribute__"><strong>__getattribute__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__getattribute__">__getattribute__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__getitem__"><strong>__getitem__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__getitem__">__getitem__</a>(y)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[y]</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__getslice__"><strong>__getslice__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__getslice__">__getslice__</a>(i,&nbsp;j)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[i:j]<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Use&nbsp;of&nbsp;negative&nbsp;indices&nbsp;is&nbsp;not&nbsp;supported.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__reduce__"><strong>__reduce__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__repr__"><strong>__repr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__repr__">__repr__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;repr(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__setattr__"><strong>__setattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__setattr__">__setattr__</a>('name',&nbsp;value)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name&nbsp;=&nbsp;value</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__setstate__"><strong>__setstate__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__str__"><strong>__str__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection-__str__">__str__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;str(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterCloseConnection-__unicode__"><strong>__unicode__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__dict__</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>args</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>message</strong></dt>
</dl>
</td></tr></table> <p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#000000" face="helvetica, arial"><a name="PpyMilterDispatcher">class <strong>PpyMilterDispatcher</strong></a>(<a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a>)</font></td></tr>
    
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8"><td rowspan=2><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td>
<td colspan=2><tt>Dispatcher&nbsp;class&nbsp;for&nbsp;a&nbsp;milter&nbsp;server.&nbsp;&nbsp;This&nbsp;class&nbsp;accepts&nbsp;entire<br>
milter&nbsp;commands&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;string&nbsp;(command&nbsp;character&nbsp;+&nbsp;binary&nbsp;data),&nbsp;parses<br>
the&nbsp;command&nbsp;and&nbsp;binary&nbsp;data&nbsp;appropriately&nbsp;and&nbsp;invokes&nbsp;the&nbsp;appropriate<br>
callback&nbsp;function&nbsp;in&nbsp;a&nbsp;milter_class&nbsp;instance.&nbsp;&nbsp;One&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilterDispatcher">PpyMilterDispatcher</a><br>
per&nbsp;socket&nbsp;connection.&nbsp;&nbsp;One&nbsp;milter_class&nbsp;instance&nbsp;per&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilterDispatcher">PpyMilterDispatcher</a><br>
(per&nbsp;socket&nbsp;connection).<br>&nbsp;</tt></td></tr>
<tr><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%">Methods defined here:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterDispatcher-Dispatch"><strong>Dispatch</strong></a>(self, data)</dt><dd><tt>Callback&nbsp;function&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;socket&nbsp;server&nbsp;to&nbsp;handle&nbsp;a&nbsp;single<br>
milter&nbsp;command.&nbsp;&nbsp;Parses&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter&nbsp;command&nbsp;data,&nbsp;invokes&nbsp;the&nbsp;milter<br>
handler,&nbsp;and&nbsp;formats&nbsp;a&nbsp;suitable&nbsp;response&nbsp;for&nbsp;the&nbsp;server&nbsp;to&nbsp;send<br>
on&nbsp;the&nbsp;socket.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;data:&nbsp;A&nbsp;(binary)&nbsp;string&nbsp;(consisting&nbsp;of&nbsp;a&nbsp;command&nbsp;code&nbsp;character<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;followed&nbsp;by&nbsp;binary&nbsp;data&nbsp;for&nbsp;that&nbsp;command&nbsp;code).<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Returns:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;A&nbsp;binary&nbsp;string&nbsp;to&nbsp;write&nbsp;on&nbsp;the&nbsp;socket&nbsp;and&nbsp;return&nbsp;to&nbsp;sendmail.&nbsp;&nbsp;The<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;string&nbsp;typically&nbsp;consists&nbsp;of&nbsp;a&nbsp;RESPONSE[]&nbsp;command&nbsp;character&nbsp;then<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;some&nbsp;response-specific&nbsp;protocol&nbsp;data.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Raises:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilterCloseConnection">PpyMilterCloseConnection</a>:&nbsp;Indicating&nbsp;the&nbsp;(milter)&nbsp;connection&nbsp;should<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;be&nbsp;closed.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterDispatcher-__init__"><strong>__init__</strong></a>(self, milter_class)</dt><dd><tt>Construct&nbsp;a&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilterDispatcher">PpyMilterDispatcher</a>&nbsp;and&nbsp;create&nbsp;a&nbsp;private<br>
milter_class&nbsp;instance.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;milter_class:&nbsp;A&nbsp;class&nbsp;(not&nbsp;an&nbsp;instance)&nbsp;that&nbsp;handles&nbsp;callbacks&nbsp;for<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;milter&nbsp;commands&nbsp;(e.g.&nbsp;a&nbsp;child&nbsp;of&nbsp;the&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter">PpyMilter</a>&nbsp;class).</tt></dd></dl>

<hr>
Data descriptors defined here:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__dict__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>dictionary&nbsp;for&nbsp;instance&nbsp;variables&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>__weakref__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>list&nbsp;of&nbsp;weak&nbsp;references&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;object&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
</td></tr></table> <p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#000000" face="helvetica, arial"><a name="PpyMilterException">class <strong>PpyMilterException</strong></a>(<a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>)</font></td></tr>
    
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8"><td rowspan=2><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td>
<td colspan=2><tt>Parent&nbsp;of&nbsp;all&nbsp;other&nbsp;<a href="#PpyMilter">PpyMilter</a>&nbsp;exceptions.&nbsp;&nbsp;Subclass&nbsp;this:&nbsp;do&nbsp;not<br>
construct&nbsp;or&nbsp;catch&nbsp;explicitly!<br>&nbsp;</tt></td></tr>
<tr><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><dl><dt>Method resolution order:</dt>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Data descriptors defined here:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__weakref__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>list&nbsp;of&nbsp;weak&nbsp;references&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;object&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__init__"><strong>__init__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__init__">__init__</a>(...)&nbsp;initializes&nbsp;x;&nbsp;see&nbsp;x.__class__.__doc__&nbsp;for&nbsp;signature</tt></dd></dl>

<hr>
Data and other attributes inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__new__</strong> = &lt;built-in method __new__ of type object&gt;<dd><tt>T.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__new__">__new__</a>(S,&nbsp;...)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;a&nbsp;new&nbsp;<a href="__builtin__.html#object">object</a>&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;S,&nbsp;a&nbsp;subtype&nbsp;of&nbsp;T</tt></dl>

<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__delattr__"><strong>__delattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__delattr__">__delattr__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;del&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__getattribute__"><strong>__getattribute__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__getattribute__">__getattribute__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__getitem__"><strong>__getitem__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__getitem__">__getitem__</a>(y)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[y]</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__getslice__"><strong>__getslice__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__getslice__">__getslice__</a>(i,&nbsp;j)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[i:j]<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Use&nbsp;of&nbsp;negative&nbsp;indices&nbsp;is&nbsp;not&nbsp;supported.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__reduce__"><strong>__reduce__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__repr__"><strong>__repr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__repr__">__repr__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;repr(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__setattr__"><strong>__setattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__setattr__">__setattr__</a>('name',&nbsp;value)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name&nbsp;=&nbsp;value</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__setstate__"><strong>__setstate__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__str__"><strong>__str__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterException-__str__">__str__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;str(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterException-__unicode__"><strong>__unicode__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__dict__</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>args</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>message</strong></dt>
</dl>
</td></tr></table> <p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#000000" face="helvetica, arial"><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure">class <strong>PpyMilterPermFailure</strong></a>(<a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>)</font></td></tr>
    
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8"><td rowspan=2><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td>
<td colspan=2><tt>Milter&nbsp;exception&nbsp;that&nbsp;indicates&nbsp;a&nbsp;perment&nbsp;failure.<br>&nbsp;</tt></td></tr>
<tr><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><dl><dt>Method resolution order:</dt>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterPermFailure">PpyMilterPermFailure</a></dd>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__weakref__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>list&nbsp;of&nbsp;weak&nbsp;references&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;object&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__init__"><strong>__init__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__init__">__init__</a>(...)&nbsp;initializes&nbsp;x;&nbsp;see&nbsp;x.__class__.__doc__&nbsp;for&nbsp;signature</tt></dd></dl>

<hr>
Data and other attributes inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__new__</strong> = &lt;built-in method __new__ of type object&gt;<dd><tt>T.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__new__">__new__</a>(S,&nbsp;...)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;a&nbsp;new&nbsp;<a href="__builtin__.html#object">object</a>&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;S,&nbsp;a&nbsp;subtype&nbsp;of&nbsp;T</tt></dl>

<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__delattr__"><strong>__delattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__delattr__">__delattr__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;del&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__getattribute__"><strong>__getattribute__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__getattribute__">__getattribute__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__getitem__"><strong>__getitem__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__getitem__">__getitem__</a>(y)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[y]</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__getslice__"><strong>__getslice__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__getslice__">__getslice__</a>(i,&nbsp;j)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[i:j]<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Use&nbsp;of&nbsp;negative&nbsp;indices&nbsp;is&nbsp;not&nbsp;supported.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__reduce__"><strong>__reduce__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__repr__"><strong>__repr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__repr__">__repr__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;repr(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__setattr__"><strong>__setattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__setattr__">__setattr__</a>('name',&nbsp;value)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name&nbsp;=&nbsp;value</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__setstate__"><strong>__setstate__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__str__"><strong>__str__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterPermFailure-__str__">__str__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;str(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterPermFailure-__unicode__"><strong>__unicode__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__dict__</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>args</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>message</strong></dt>
</dl>
</td></tr></table> <p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#000000" face="helvetica, arial"><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure">class <strong>PpyMilterTempFailure</strong></a>(<a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>)</font></td></tr>
    
<tr bgcolor="#ffc8d8"><td rowspan=2><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td>
<td colspan=2><tt>Milter&nbsp;exception&nbsp;that&nbsp;indicates&nbsp;a&nbsp;temporary/transient&nbsp;failure.<br>&nbsp;</tt></td></tr>
<tr><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><dl><dt>Method resolution order:</dt>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterTempFailure">PpyMilterTempFailure</a></dd>
<dd><a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a></dd>
<dd><a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a></dd>
<dd><a href="__builtin__.html#object">__builtin__.object</a></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="ppymilterbase.html#PpyMilterException">PpyMilterException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__weakref__</strong></dt>
<dd><tt>list&nbsp;of&nbsp;weak&nbsp;references&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;object&nbsp;(if&nbsp;defined)</tt></dd>
</dl>
<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__init__"><strong>__init__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__init__">__init__</a>(...)&nbsp;initializes&nbsp;x;&nbsp;see&nbsp;x.__class__.__doc__&nbsp;for&nbsp;signature</tt></dd></dl>

<hr>
Data and other attributes inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#Exception">exceptions.Exception</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__new__</strong> = &lt;built-in method __new__ of type object&gt;<dd><tt>T.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__new__">__new__</a>(S,&nbsp;...)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;a&nbsp;new&nbsp;<a href="__builtin__.html#object">object</a>&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;S,&nbsp;a&nbsp;subtype&nbsp;of&nbsp;T</tt></dl>

<hr>
Methods inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__delattr__"><strong>__delattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__delattr__">__delattr__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;del&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__getattribute__"><strong>__getattribute__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__getattribute__">__getattribute__</a>('name')&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__getitem__"><strong>__getitem__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__getitem__">__getitem__</a>(y)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[y]</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__getslice__"><strong>__getslice__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__getslice__">__getslice__</a>(i,&nbsp;j)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x[i:j]<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Use&nbsp;of&nbsp;negative&nbsp;indices&nbsp;is&nbsp;not&nbsp;supported.</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__reduce__"><strong>__reduce__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__repr__"><strong>__repr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__repr__">__repr__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;repr(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__setattr__"><strong>__setattr__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__setattr__">__setattr__</a>('name',&nbsp;value)&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;x.name&nbsp;=&nbsp;value</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__setstate__"><strong>__setstate__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__str__"><strong>__str__</strong></a>(...)</dt><dd><tt>x.<a href="#PpyMilterTempFailure-__str__">__str__</a>()&nbsp;&lt;==&gt;&nbsp;str(x)</tt></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><a name="PpyMilterTempFailure-__unicode__"><strong>__unicode__</strong></a>(...)</dt></dl>

<hr>
Data descriptors inherited from <a href="exceptions.html#BaseException">exceptions.BaseException</a>:<br>
<dl><dt><strong>__dict__</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>args</strong></dt>
</dl>
<dl><dt><strong>message</strong></dt>
</dl>
</td></tr></table></td></tr></table><p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#eeaa77">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#ffffff" face="helvetica, arial"><big><strong>Functions</strong></big></font></td></tr>
    
<tr><td bgcolor="#eeaa77"><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><dl><dt><a name="-CanonicalizeAddress"><strong>CanonicalizeAddress</strong></a>(addr)</dt><dd><tt>Strip&nbsp;angle&nbsp;brackes&nbsp;from&nbsp;email&nbsp;address&nbsp;iff&nbsp;not&nbsp;an&nbsp;empty&nbsp;address&nbsp;("&lt;&gt;").<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Args:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;addr:&nbsp;the&nbsp;email&nbsp;address&nbsp;to&nbsp;canonicalize&nbsp;(strip&nbsp;angle&nbsp;brackets&nbsp;from).<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Returns:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;The&nbsp;addr&nbsp;with&nbsp;leading&nbsp;and&nbsp;trailing&nbsp;angle&nbsp;brackets&nbsp;removed&nbsp;unless<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;the&nbsp;address&nbsp;is&nbsp;"&lt;&gt;"&nbsp;(in&nbsp;which&nbsp;case&nbsp;the&nbsp;string&nbsp;is&nbsp;returned&nbsp;unchanged).</tt></dd></dl>
 <dl><dt><a name="-printchar"><strong>printchar</strong></a>(char)</dt><dd><tt>Useful&nbsp;debugging&nbsp;function&nbsp;for&nbsp;milter&nbsp;developers.</tt></dd></dl>
</td></tr></table><p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#55aa55">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#ffffff" face="helvetica, arial"><big><strong>Data</strong></big></font></td></tr>
    
<tr><td bgcolor="#55aa55"><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%"><strong>CALLBACKS</strong> = {'OnBody': 16, 'OnConnect': 1, 'OnEndHeaders': 64, 'OnHeader': 32, 'OnHelo': 2, 'OnMailFrom': 4, 'OnRcptTo': 8}<br>
<strong>COMMANDS</strong> = {'A': 'Abort', 'B': 'Body', 'C': 'Connect', 'D': 'Macro', 'E': 'EndBody', 'H': 'Helo', 'L': 'Header', 'M': 'MailFrom', 'N': 'EndHeaders', 'O': 'OptNeg', ...}<br>
<strong>MILTER_VERSION</strong> = 2<br>
<strong>NO_CALLBACKS</strong> = 127<br>
<strong>RESPONSE</strong> = {'ACCEPT': 'a', 'ADDHEADER': 'h', 'ADDRCPT': '+', 'CHGHEADER': 'm', 'CONNFAIL': 'f', 'CONTINUE': 'c', 'DELRCPT': '-', 'DISCARD': 'd', 'INSHEADER': 'i', 'PROGRESS': 'p', ...}<br>
<strong>SMFIC_ABORT</strong> = 'A'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_BODY</strong> = 'B'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_BODYEOB</strong> = 'E'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_CONNECT</strong> = 'C'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_DATA</strong> = 'T'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_EOH</strong> = 'N'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_HEADER</strong> = 'L'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_HELO</strong> = 'H'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_MACRO</strong> = 'D'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_MAIL</strong> = 'M'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_OPTNEG</strong> = 'O'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_QUIT</strong> = 'Q'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_RCPT</strong> = 'R'<br>
<strong>SMFIC_UNKNOWN</strong> = 'U'<br>
<strong>__author__</strong> = 'Eric DeFriez'</td></tr></table><p>
<table width="100%" cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0 summary="section">
<tr bgcolor="#7799ee">
<td colspan=3 valign=bottom>&nbsp;<br>
<font color="#ffffff" face="helvetica, arial"><big><strong>Author</strong></big></font></td></tr>
    
<tr><td bgcolor="#7799ee"><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt></td><td>&nbsp;</td>
<td width="100%">Eric&nbsp;DeFriez</td></tr></table>
</body></html>